[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode we were joined by Ken
timsit the head of Kronos Labs the team
tasked with growing out the Kronos
blockchain ecosystem in this episode we
spoke about crypto as a viable solution
to Modern banking the relationships
between centralized exchanges and their
blockchain ecosystem counterparts the
Kronos Tri blockchain ecosystem Lessons
Learned From building on the evm and
Cosmos Tex STX the forthcoming Kronos
triple yield bearing thesis for the ZK
Crow token and so much more just a
reminder nothing said this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that the host or guest May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
you can head over to Neon newday.com to
check out a disclaimer also if you like
this episode please don't hesitate to
like comment review or share with
friends and family as all of those
actions really help get these episodes
in front of more ears and eyes so with
all that said I really enjoyed this
conversation with Ken and I hope you
enjoy it too today we're joined by Ken
timsit the head of Kronos Labs The
Entity tasked with building and growing
the non-custodial branch of the Kronos
ecosystem how you doing today Ken I'm
great D hi when we start these
conversations uh with folks that I've
never met before I'm really curious to
hear kind of what was your Genesis with
crypto um for me and and many others we
first heard about Bitcoin we first heard
about ethereum and then it went over our
heads and we come back a few years later
so I'm kind of curious uh to hear your
perspective when did you first hear
about blockchain about crypto and and
kind of what was your path into the
industry yeah so my path into blockchain
was both professional and personal on a
professional level I had worked for many
years as a consultant in financial
services uh you at that time the big
word was you the Dig digitization of U
Bank processes digitization of Bank
services and so uh you as part of
working on that of course I had um
looked at uh new technologies and how
they impacted uh the creation and
delivery of financial services and so
that's how I came across blockchain and
found found that technology very
interesting on a personal level um I've
I'm originally from France I've lived
and worked in the US in um the UK in
Singapore in Indonesia Malaysia
uh every time I had to start a new uh
you to open a new set of bank accounts
transfer money around the world uh do
the kyc fill out hundreds of pages of
checkboxes that were meaningless but we
supposed to
protect uh me financially and so I kind
of um had a firsthand experience of how
the world of financial services is not
designed for um Global Citizens uh
digital citizens s like many of us are
um and so when I met Jin and consensus
in 2017 you know I was kind of primed um
to um work on the uh blockchain re
Revolution and how this could transform
the financial raise of of our economy
and so that's how I get I got into the
um into the industry initially because I
I had the B background working with
corporate uh corporates and governments
you know initially my work was basically
to to evangelize ethereum to corporates
and governments explore use cases with
them and then over time of course you
besides the Enterprise applications of
blockchain uh you know crypto became an
industry um by itself lots of end user
use cases emerged particularly with def
summer um and so the the more I
progressed in this industry the more I
moved from the B2B side of it into the
b2c side so during your tenure at
consensus you were there for almost all
of 2017 through the majority of 2021 how
did uh Beyond just the B2B your personal
transition from B2B to BTC how did kind
of the change in the public view of
crypto and blockchain um impact the work
that you did because when you first
started at consensus it was the Ico boom
tokens were very speculative and then by
the time you left there was real world
utility there was defi applications um
celebrities were making nft avatars on
their social media accounts so you kind
of got to ride the wave at one of the
leading you know crypto entities from
speculation to early days of use so how
did you keep up with that while that was
happening at consensus and were you
noticing the change and the types of
conversations you were having with these
kind of like Enterprise financial
institution were they grasping what was
happening not fully I think that the um
so you know at consensus and personally
I was not really involved in the Ico
boom um but you know 2017 2018 consensus
was more focused on uh evangelizing
ethereum and making it credible uh to
the broader economy and so that was
really the focus of my job U but at the
time I think that you know we thought
the only way to to make money from
blockchain was uh you know to sell it to
corporates and explore real real world
use cases so I think what really
massively changed uh in 21 2021 was that
crypto emerged as a as a with an economy
of its own with profitable with very
profitable companies uh that were
serving Financial Services to Global
audiences of millions of people with
extremely small teams like you know Unis
Swap and a had initially were probably
designed by 10 people or so so the the
the extreme scalability of those
businesses um uh and you know made them
profitable even though transa their the
transaction fees that they were
extracting from users were very very
small and so the emergence of web 3 as a
real economy um was really the the major
shift and you know nowadays most crypto
companies you know there are lots of
companies building developer tools and
user tools wallets Etc which are
entirely uh sustainable thanks to the
the b2c economy I think that probably we
we've gone a little too far in that
direction in the sense that uh the
regulatory regime in the US has
prevented many bridges um from being
built between the the web three sphere
and the the banking sector and the real
economy uh the regulatory regime has
also scared off many corporates from
continuing to invest in uh web three
projects you know particularly in areas
that were Gray from a regulatory
standpoint you know I think nfts are
easy because it's just um uh
Collectibles but as as soon as you start
getting into payments and defy that's
much more of a gray area so anyway so I
think we've gone a little too far in the
emergence of web 3 as a standalone and
isolated economy as isolated here and
hopefully um with the evolution of the
regulatory regime in the US and
elsewhere uh we can uh move a little bit
back into a situation where we three the
we three economy exists and stands on
its own TW feet but also has more
bridges uh with the real the world world
economy so you mentioned the US
regulatory regime and um I've been in
crypto since 2017 I've been working
full-time in the space since 2018 I can
feel the clamp down that has increased
over the past few years but you also
have experence ER yourself in speaking
with um regulatory agencies in the EU so
um you you spent a little bit of time as
a management Committee Member at the EU
blockchain Observatory and forum and you
also spent a small amount of time uh
helping to educate the eu's digital
Finance task force on uh MAA so maybe
you could share a little bit about your
interactions with regulators and reg
regulatory bodies in the EU and um do
you think that those open conversations
that were being had in 2018 2019 2020 do
you think that we're starting to see um
the fruit from that tree kind of bear
now um whereas in the US we're
definitely seeing the lack of
communication during that time frame
kind of play out right now um so
definitely you know when you want to uh
make a technology usable uh by the word
there's a lot of work that goes into
evangelizing it meaning educating um the
society and its various stakeholders
about how it works and what it does um I
think we've gone a long way you know the
in the early days uh the number one
concern was like what happens if quantum
computers crack Bitcoin what happens if
um my block is mined by North Korea and
it means that suddenly I'm in business
you know with North Korea just by using
the
blockchain so I think the what was hard
at the time was that people were seeing
all kinds of risks and had trouble um
quantifying their relative importance
there are of course risks uh associated
with crypto uh but it's important to uh
weigh them according to their likelihood
and actual impact so anyway a lot of
Education was needed and and this work
is not over for sure we are seeing also
in AI right the the massive you know the
massive amount of money that um open Ai
and other uh AI technology companies are
investing in government lobbying public
affairs Etc but I think that you know
that kind of separate from the the
political the political will I think you
know you can do um you can educate
technocrats and the bureaucracy and
that's an ongoing effort but then in the
end um democracies are such that you
know some people have different opinions
about what is good for society um you
know and that changes with election
Cycles but I think the issue in the US
is not that Regulators are not informed
about blockchain anymore I think they're
pretty smart and pretty educated but you
know politically they've just decided
that it's not um something that they
want to to support and you know that's
entirely any political view is
legitimate people are can have their own
opinions it's just in the end um
hopefully something that changes when um
the your governments uh governments
rotate as part of the natural democracy
tles so we're recording this um on July
23rd so by the time this air is at the
end of September I can almost guarantee
that there will have been a lot of
turmoil in the American political sphere
um as is the case with election cycles
that just seem to be more divisive and
more crazy um every four years as they
continue to move forward
so with that caveat to whoever's
listening to this right now there might
be some changes to um insights that we
may or may have right now um but before
Biden kind of dropped out of the race he
was viewed as the the Democratic party
was viewed as like the anti- crypto
party and Trump has mentioned a lot of
pro and favorable crypto support and his
run up to the selection so so far um
what are kind of the things the world
should be excited about and maybe a
little bit um on edge or worried about
when it comes to maybe crypto policy and
Outlook um that will shake out of the US
and do you think that maybe we have a
Reason for Hope uh for a better future
for crypto here in the US uh yeah
definitely and um the it's very hard to
predict what will happen even if the
Republicans um win the presidential
election they will have bigger fish to
fry then than just you focusing on
crypto for the first 100 days so and
many things will happen so you know I'm
hoping that the like I said before I
think first of all um the bureaucracy is
fairly well educated now around the
world you know in the US in Singapore in
Europe um so that uh makes it much
easier to restart the dialogue if there
is a political will to do so uh we we
won't have to start from scratch which
would otherwise have taken a few years
so I see that as a very positive signal
for crypto um I think at the same time I
think it's also our responsibility as
industry members uh to behave properly
so to engage in dialogue and also to
make sure that we don't shoot ourselves
in the foot right uh the Tera and FTX um
crisis were not caused by public policy
uh maybe they will they were um uh
indirectly um
uh influenced by it you know because
there was a lack of Engagement which led
which made it easier for large offshore
actors to grow very big but you know in
the end it's you know we brought this
upon ourselves and the worst that could
happen is if um the market hits up again
and we bring another similar crisis upon
ourselves U so I think it's up to the
sector to really make sure that we're
Vigilant that we're alerting users if
we're seeing uh protocols that are
taking undue risks and hope you know
hopefully that we are self-regulated in
some self-regulating in some way um uh I
think that's that's really what's
important and the biggest risk would be
that we uh the biggest the biggest risk
could come from within do you think that
the kind of like thought leaders and I
guess kol's and whatever you want to
call them in the space are ready to step
up to the challenge of of maybe saying
um the next SBA if he comes around maybe
calling him out because a lot of people
are afraid to kind of lose their clout
and might be afraid to have negative
blowback on their projects so you know
in in a space such as crypto when things
are going up people are really it's it's
really easy to turn the other cheek and
and to look the other way um do you
think that we've internalized these
issues with charlatans and and bad
projects in the past to the point where
if we do see another SPF or another Tera
that folks really will kind of sound the
alarm or I'm a little cynical because I
think you know if people are making a
bunch of money they'll just not say
anything do you think we've learned that
lesson for sure uh the industry as a
whole has learned that lesson and uh you
people will be able to relate to past
experiences if there are alerts to be
given uh of course we we cannot deny
that um from the standpoint of end users
there is this very strong urge to make
money quickly uh by investing in tokens
and seeing those tokens you know
increase in value by 100 or a thousand
Factor uh and that's that that urge is
very hard to um overcome the best thing
that we can do uh as an industry again
is to work towards uh the adoption of
web3 and decentralized applications you
know for for their for their reduse
right the most to ultimately are meant
to power decentralized protocols to Ser
as govern you know governance um uh as a
representation of voting right in the
governance as a way to redistribute the
value created by those protocols and so
what we can hope is that a growing
number of people adopt web3 and the the
underlying tokens as tools to use the
decentralized financial infrastructure
that we're creating as opposed as purely
speculative tokens um I think you know
were arguably were slowly getting in
that direction there were you know when
I started there were probably 10,000
people in the world using decentralized
applications now tens of millions and
even though that number has gone down
significantly since
2021 um I expect that uh we're on the
right track and we're building the right
tools for that so I think um the thing
that maybe attracted a lot of people in
2024 to testing out these web 3
ecosystems might have been
uh a lot of aird drops that happened
this year of course meme coins were a
craze that was onboarding a lot of folks
we also saw the kind of mean coin craze
prop up uh a third chain in salana as
kind of like the landing point for the
new entrance into web 3 so beyond kind
of free money from airdrops and crazy
gains from meme coins these are very
shortterm sort of incentive structures
to onboard folks and maybe they're not
necessarily onboarding somebody who's
really here for the right cause um I've
mentioned on this pod a lot of times my
Genesis into open source software was uh
downloading the first album that my
parents wouldn't want me to listen to
off of Napster and that moment of
empowerment that really made me
appreciate um open- Source software
Torance and kind of put me down this
path of embrac
peer-to-peer networks and Technologies
do you think that we're building a space
uh with the right ideology today that
can capture these folks who can fall in
love with peer-to-peer networks such as
myself um and is that kind of going to
start shining through um after we get
over the honeymoon period of free
airdrops and mem coin ridiculous price
action yeah I do um so when I listen to
Kronos users um I I hear time and again
motivations that are similar to the ones
that brought me to web three in the
first place basically every interaction
with you know a bank is uh um
uh you're so so disappointing um that
you people hope that there's a better
way to do things um you know every time
you call your bank they're trying to
cross sell you something else
um and you it's just like hundreds of
pages of paperwork um you the are
construed as providing Financial advice
um even though most people don't really
understand or read the checks that are
provided to them so so I think the the
motivations uh the the primary
motivations are still valid and when I
also you know when I talk to Children of
my like teenagers teenager or young
adults who are children of my friends uh
you know they've gone fully digital for
them um crypto is not just about getting
rich quick it's just about um Financial
rise that match their nomadic and
digital lifestyle so I think the the the
core motivations are valid and are
generationally relevant at the same time
you know in any industry you need to
subsidize ad option so you know open AI
is you know we paying much less for chat
GPT than what chat GPT costs open a is
subsidizing the US of Che GPT in a
massive way uh you know when Uber and
deliver started you know we had free
rides free delivery now you know for for
when it comes to credit cards you know
you get your 5% cash back for the first
three months at any you know large
financial institution in the US so you
know there's always a certain amount of
free money that is necessary to change
user behaviors I I don't see it as a
necessarily as a sign that the the
entire Foundation is rotten so I think
anybody who's been in crypto for a cycle
or maybe even for just a couple years
you can see um the launch of a chain
come and go very quickly you can see the
launch of a project come and go very
quickly and so to have tenure in this
space is a feat in it of itself and I
feel like today um if we zoom out of the
Kronos and the crow ecosystem maybe you
don't hear all these key uh these these
key opinion leaders online or these
influencers talking about it every day
but Kronos has hundreds of daps has um
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
users there is continuously being um new
thought poured into the ecosystem
there's uh testing of new technology
that's coming out of the the
non-custodial chains so I'm curious what
are some of the key characteristics that
have made Kronos able to survive the es
and flows of attention in the blockchain
space and how has this ecosystem
continued to build and survive um
regardless of it being like the number
one search term uh or not being searched
at all what are some of the things that
keep this community and this ecosystem
resilient Kronos is a uh blockchain
ecosystem uh and by that we mean that uh
it consists of a few things uh F first
of all Kronos is an open source project
that launches blockchain networks so
right now there are three blockchain
networks each with its own positioning
and purposes Kronos is also an ecosystem
of thirdparty developers who create and
deploy apps on those networks and
finally there's a user Community which
is which calls itself CR Farm um and it
consists of tens of you know more than
tens of millions of users around the
world um so Kronos was built um in
partnership with the engineering teams
at crypto.com initially really as a way
to uh make it easier for new users into
web3 uh to start experimenting with self
Cal applications uh at the time the
thesis was that um there there were
networks like ethereum like others who
had been built and very successful with
Wales or with d gen Traders you know
sophisticated users uh and you know
there was room to create a place
where newer users into web 3 could uh
experiment with self Cal
applications uh so still enjoy the
benefits of controlling their keys but
not um you have you know uh have to go
through the Hoops of understanding more
sophisticated products like the ones
that we have on ethereum I think this
thesis still holds and in a way Kronos
exists now a little bit like a country
right um You There are
um companies and people in France in
Germany in in the
US um the each chain exist more or less
as a supranational digital community of
people who have their own induc syn cres
way of thinking reference points and you
know I don't see necessar I mean there
are chains that are bigger than others
and and fortunately Kronos has always
been ranked you more or less in the top
15 of all chains which is great but I I
don't see necessarily um a competition
between chains as a war where only one
can survive rather I see each chain has
having its own positioning and relevance
uh based on its own community and
certainly the Cronos Community has been
very strong and has encouraged the
grassroot developers to develop their
own applications um so defi is strong on
on Kronos as a use case has always been
and certainly you know has uh generated
a certain level of Bas activity that has
maintained the chain in its top 15
position throughout the years but more
recently uh games and mem coins you know
have really uh generated a lot of
passions in the community because they
uh those are people who are active on
Twitter are active on Discord and like
the idea of sort of you know controlling
or influencing projects that are
originating from the Grassroots
Community uh and so those newer use
cases have on like on other chains
Propel the activity You by a factor of
you know five or 10 um and you know we
aim to continue doing that we aim to
have a base level of activity that is
around Defi and recurring use cases but
also we want to encourage developers to
be agile and capture the the new and
hottest Trends so that end users don't
feel like they're you know feel that
they're finding on Chronos as much
Innovation as what they're finding on
other chains I don't know if you can um
quantify this maybe it's more of just a
feeling or a Vibe but you mentioned that
there's a Resurgence in chain activity
because of meme coins and web 3 gaming
are you from your insights and just
perspective are you feeling that these
are um new users that are onboarding
into web 3 or maybe these are uh folks
from past Cycles who are being reignited
and re-engaged into web 3 and it's just
games and fun uh mcoin trading that's
kind of bringing them back so is this
new users or is this kind of the same
people that were here just
reinvigoration in their onchain activity
on Kronos as on other blockchains um
currently it's more of the latter um
it's more uh you um existing users
re-engaging with the use cases and
overcoming the uh frustrations and
disappointment that they had experienced
in
2022 um which is which is you know b b
both like bad piece of news and a good
one right so uh on on on one side it
means that we we are uh we haven't yet
um managed to bring back lots of new
users into the industry and it kind of
right now for many Traders it feels a
little bit like a zero some game but I
think the flip side of that and the good
news is that um you know the if we
continue on that direction and uh make
those existing users Advocates of crypto
again uh proponents evangelizers um then
the potential uh upside of starting
again this um um pipeline of new users
can be tremendous and so we're we're
certainly giving up for that yeah I
agree um I think that what really
excited me in 2021 and 2022 um came out
of the cosmos ecosystem and that was
that a lot of people were taking their
their Luna and their us off of exchanges
and they were learning how to become
onchain members of web 3 Unfortunately
they were staking their us and anchor to
get that 20% yield and they got burnt so
we lost potentially a Hu a huge wave of
new web 3 users so I kind of appreciate
your perspective that it's both good and
bad that we're quote unquote only
bringing back the folks that were here
in 21 and 22 but to be able to win them
back over and bring them back on chain
that's a huge win because that could
have been a whole class of users that we
lost forever so it's a little refreshing
despite the fact that it's not
necessarily new folks but that also kind
of um brings a point that I'm curious
about and I don't think we can Hammer
home enough that Kronos is a separate
entity from crypto.com that the
non-custodial blockchain ecosystem does
not necessarily run lockstep with the
custodial exchange but I am curious from
perspective and since you are on the
non-custodial side of this um calculus
in 2024 does a centralized exchange need
to have its own blockchain and
blockchain ecosystem to be a relevant um
entity we see this with coinbase
launching base last year and this year
arguably becoming one of the more
popular l2s we saw this with binance
when they launched chain years ago we
see this with okx they have their own
chain I'm sure just countless other
custodial exchanges so from your
perspective does a custodial exchange
need to have a decentralized
noncustodial ecosystem that is its
counterpart centralized exchanges need
to become uh the gold standard in terms
of um like regulatory clarity
uh safety customer service and so I
think it's very important for cust
exchanges to operate well within the
limits of Regulation and certainly our
partner crypto.com has done that you
know seeking regulatory approvals uh in
probably more countries around the world
than any other
exchange um and so as you mentioned
right the custodial exchanges exist
separately from decentralized apps and
um decentralized protocols in a way you
know um the regulatory framework or the
conceptual framework that the industry
has tried to to push for many for many
years was uh you it's okay to regulate
entry points so on ramps and off- ramps
right so the um it's F yeah it's okay to
regulate uh Bridges between crypto and
the banking ecosystem and clearly
custodial exchanges are the prime way
where this should happen and hopefully
if we do that uh then we don't need to
regulate uh pieces of Open Source
software like this you know or tools uh
given that we consider decentralized
applications more like tools than
financial products so anyway so the my
point was I think it's essential first
of all that cust exchanges remain well
within the limits of Regulation and
don't um um entertain um you blurriness
or lack of clarity about what exactly
they are uh but at the same time uh of
course the reason why centralized
exchanges exist at all is because there
are tokens and the reason why tokens
exist is because the power the
centralized protocols uh so I think it's
important also to recognize that this
whole economy exists because the
centralized protocols exist and
therefore custodial exchanges should
make as many Partnerships as possible
should have an open architecture should
should um uh help their users to
understand what's beneath that what's
beneath that that it's not just a bunch
of tokens which prices goes up and down
so from that standpoint we're very
grateful that crypto.com is part is
participating in the chronis ecosystem
they dedicate engineering and security
resources to participate in the open
source protocol they they have a very
good sense of what end users want what
threat you know security threats are on
the horizon and they are bringing a lot
of value to to building a vibrant
ecosystem do you see where do your flow
of users come from do you see them kind
of become
uh onchain Curious from crypto.com or
are you capturing users from just
onchain native onchain crypto
users right now the majority of crypto
of Kronos users are coming from
crypto.com in the sense that they were
uh mainstream users who got um you who
gained awareness of crypto thanks to
those massive crypto.com marketing
campaigns
and then they started researching more
what this is about um and therefore and
they started becoming more familiar with
decentralized applications and many of
them then started using Kronos because
Kronos is so easy to use from within the
crypto.com products there are also lots
of Kronos users who are coming from
Cosmos uh because you the Kronos evm
chain is um evm compatible blockchain
based on the cosmos SDK which is
technical way of saying that it uh
interoperates with Cosmos chains but
offers the flexibility and open
ecosystem of ethereum like blockchains
so many of our users are Cosmos users
who have Cosmos crypto Holdings and are
trying to trade them or lend them then
take advantage of the kind of
innovations that ethereum has brought to
the picture uh and now you know we we're
you know by the time this episode is is
a broadcast we will have launched Chrono
zik evm which is a layer two blockchain
on top of etherum that complements our
ecosystem and we're really hoping that
this chain this new chain because it's
anchored to ethereum and has a secure
bridge to ethereum this chain can really
BR be a beacon to bring new users uh
beyond our existing kind of audiences of
crypto.com and Cosmos users so that's
something that I think is super cool
about the the Kronos ecosystem is that
there is this Tri chain kind of
structure so I want to delve into this a
little bit more uh but before we kind of
like talk about each of the chains I
guess let's start at the Genesis Kronos
POS it's built on the cosmos SDK why did
the team opt to build on top of um
Cosmos did Kronos launch during the 2020
2021 era where the cosmos SDK was kind
of like the hot new thing or and you
were hoping to kind of like capture
these new way
of uh users who were more into the
modular chain thesis um or did the
cosmos SDK offer something inherently
better than that which was available in
like evm land yes so at the time when uh
the the the Kronos PS chain was created
um I think there was first of all Cosmos
was emerging as a battle tested um
consensus engine for lack of a world
right if if you the there was a thesis
at the time that was um gaining ground
which was the idea of sovereign chains
the idea that not everything has to
happen on ethereum and to some extent
you know with l2s that thesis of
sovereign chains you know is is is
regaining momentum there is again this
idea that not a sing it's not a single
chain uh where everything can happen so
the the thesis of The Sovereign chain
was getting ground Cosmos was uh a very
battle tested and proven technology to
create such Sovereign chains and I think
that that has been proven over time
right the all the cosmos chains have
shown tremendous resilience and
robustness um and at the same time you
know I think so so um the um the you I
think you know a lot of the um like at
the time I think a lot of the western
world was kind of like Bitcoin or
ethereum and that's it uh but elsewhere
the world um in Asia in particular
um and to some extent in Europe with
padot there was really this desire to
see alternative ecosystems emerge and so
I think when you when you know when you
have a global user base and you're
looking at all the trends around the
world um it was hard to miss that there
was this emerging new technology that
was uh bringing something new to the
picture uh so I think so uh you know
Cosmos is uh is great and has been great
for us uh has demonstrated its
reliability and even today so yeah after
Kronos POS so we launched Kronos evm
chain which was also a chain based on
Cosmos but with an additional layer that
is evm compatible and so with Kronos evm
today we can see that some of the
reasons why we chose um Cosmos like
interoperability so things that are in
technical terms called interchange
security interchange in account now
there are modules for parallel execution
so there are lots of optimizations that
are very Advanced from an engineering
standpoint that the community in Cosmos
is bringing um to the picture and we um
the those Innovations are really
tremendous you the they represent the
best of what's happening on in other
ecosystems um so that that's great the
the two main pain points and limitations
of Cosmos where uh so first of all you
know um the
um so Kronos POS was not programmable
developers could not build their own
applications um so Kronos CM Sol solved
that and then the other limitation was
that of course uh the ethereum ecosystem
as a whole with its layer TOS has
emerged as also a very important and
self-contained ecosystem and for us it
was hard to um stay isolated from that
we felt that the developers and the
users of Kronos deserved a direct link
to that big and growing EC system around
ethereum which was the the motivation
for for creating Kronos I kind of want
to take a side step and maybe get a
little philosophical because um if you
look at the Advent of these l2s in evm
land they've really just been gaining in
popularity and we've seen a lot of
excitement uh maybe some some D
excitement with some of the air drops
this year but we've seen a lot of growth
in the l2s and if you look into the the
cosmos
ecosystem um you know it was touted in
2021 and 2022 as like the app chain was
the next big thing and a lot of people
got really excited about this and they
got super kind of engaged within the
cosmos ecosystem and there were maybe it
was a honeymoon period where they had um
just hearts in their eyes and they
thought that that Cosmos was going to be
the next thing and it was going to beat
ethereum but if you look today um and we
can use the price of adom as a proxy
even though price doesn't determine
development um the price of adom is
lower is as low today as it was in 2019
if you go on Reddit to the cosmos
subreddit you see a lot of maybe
frustration with folks and I don't think
this is unique to just Cosmos I'm really
not trying to bash on Cosmos I love it
but you right now sentiment for just the
ecosystem as a whole is kind of low and
we're starting to see sentiment for all
these l2s in ethereum kind of Rise so
I'm curious if you're noticing the same
thing if you are does this impact kind
of your decisions to invest time and
energy into maintaining uh Chronos CVM
um if not if you're seeing a lot more
excitement and eagerness and engagement
in L2 land does this dictate that you
put more time and resources into the ZK
evm how does this kind of perception of
Cosmos versus ethereum's l2s how do you
view this and does it impact your
decisions on um which chain of the the
the the three that Cosmos has or that
Kronos has sorry um to kind of focus
time and energy into so I I will answer
the second question first and then the
first one so for us at the moment um the
relative positioning of each chain is
very clear Chronos POS is what we call
the layer zero meaning it's really the
where we host the governance of the
ecosystem and particularly uh the
governance of crow which is the utility
token of the ecosystem Crow is entirely
controlled by the Chon by the
decentralized governance of Kronos chain
which is guaranteeing its security you
know which gu which is guaranteeing the
the the total money supply and the the
emissions rates um Chronos CVM is the so
the M compatible chain built on Cosmos
SDK uh it it benefits from many years of
operating
flawlessly and thanks to the Innovations
happening in Cosmos it's going to
continue to become more scalable and
cheaper and you know at the moment you
know it has the potential of be being
you cheaper and more scalable than many
layer tools which are still an evolving
and maturing technology uh so we see
Chronos CVM as continuing to be the go
to point for mainstream users for n FTS
for gaming uh because it has been
optimized for that and for those use
cases there is not a huge need for uh
cross chain liquidity finally uh we see
Kronos ZK evm as the chain for more
advanced uh use cases in particular in
defi we also see it as the chain for
institutional adoption because as a
layer two it is secured by ethereum and
has a secured native Bridge with
ethereum and so we hope to be building
on on the on krono M an ecosystem of
institutional applications corporate
applications Advanced defi applications
and reward asset use cases that take
fully advantage of e so I think each
chain has its own use and we will
continue to invest in the in all three
of them uh now um there are all all
kinds of great things about Cosmos that
we discussed and so I'm I'm going to
answer your first question at the same
time I think what has happened with
Cosmos um so first of all you know uh
the so Cosmos is still a vibrant
ecosystem now thanks in particular to uh
other chains I think dydx osmosis um and
Celestia are probably the more like the
flag bearers of the cosmos ecosystem now
than um Cosmos Hub but nevertheless I
think what we've learned from the
evolution of the cosmos ecosystem is
that up chains are really a hard
proposition for end
users it's hard for them to so if if
you're any end user it's hard to keep a
a blockchain top of mind if you're only
going there you know once a month for
particular use case um and so as as a
chain ecosystem you have to really it's
important not to be naive and think that
um you can uh build the following just
with one use case uh you need of course
to have you can't be fully gener and you
have to have your own
differentiation uh and induc syn crises
but at the same time you need to have a
critical mass of applications on a
single chain that uh makes it possible
for users to come every day and keep the
chain front front of mine top of mine
and I think what that has been one of
the challenges for uh many Cosmos chains
which is they didn't have enough to do
on each of them uh to get users to come
every day uh and I think that's why you
know if you look at dydx of course um
they are trying to build an ecosystem
around the C idx protocol if you look at
Celestia you know they are ex they're
going to exist not not as a b b2c chain
but as an infrastructure to support that
availability for many other blockchains
so I think there's a there's a way for
Cosmos chains to exist and to have a
real value in the
ecosystem uh but you know it can't be as
pure b2c infrastructures to to do a
single to host a s application I
appreciate your perspective on you know
maybe where the COS and app chain thesis
might have gone wrong um but that
necessarily that's not a negative or
it's not necessarily like uh a nail in
the coffin for just Cosmos chains in
general that there needs to be maybe
some extra thought that's put into what
brings users back and maybe that's not
necessarily you know unique to Cosmos
itself I think that any alt chain that
launches really needs to have a use case
and drive users there and continue to
iterate and um improve upon itself and
and bring people back to the chain um
which is really cool what we were
talking about with meme coins and Defi
and web 3 gaming for the Kronos
ecosystem so I do want to talk a little
bit about dkm because um I believe if I
listened to some of your previous talks
earlier Kronos is the first chain that's
building on top of the ZK sync stack so
you shared a little bit of the lessons
that you learned in your talk at ethcc
so maybe we can build upon the
presentation that you made and kind of
just like assume that people listen to
that um so why did the team choose to
build on uh its third chain on top of
the zc casing stack as opposed to maybe
like the op stack or um something else
that had a little bit more tenure the so
the goal for Chronos KVM is to be um a
chain that is fully connected to
ethereum uh which enables we think
institutional adoption corporate
adoption like more sophisticated defi
adoption uh but also the the goal of
Chon AVM is to serve as um experimental
playground where we can make sure that
we are using Leading Edge technology uh
and future proof when it comes to
scalability uh and other benefits of l2s
so from that standpoint um Chrono KVM
which is built on the zking technology
was to us kind of a great compromise a
great trade-off between the various
things that we're trying to accomplish
so first of all it is a future proof
technology uh nowadays and hopefully it
stays that way you zero knowledge
scalability is recognized as really the
the
the the endgame future for ethereum uh
even um uh the other scalability
Solutions recognize that you at some
point it's
uh some use of zero knowledge technology
for scalability is
necessary and and certainly vitalik has
also kind of endorsed that uh as the end
game for ethereum so it's it's a future
proof
technology at the same time The Zing
team has a tremendous track record in
running is casing era and generating a
lot of activity and an ecosystem around
that so it's not um it's a great uh
track record and proof of concept um and
finally you know as Kronos team we were
really looking for an ecosystem where we
could not just take the technology but
also contribute back to it uh it has
been what the team has done on on Cosmos
you know contributing back to Cosmos as
an open source project and so we felt
that you know this particular project
with zync was one where there was an
openness to having third party teams
contribute to it as opposed to the kind
of the original team controlling the
technology fully uh so those were the
motivations from a techn from a
technical standpoint that led us to
choose uh zik era as the
template you know I'm sure that you
there are other L2 technologies that are
going to flourish over time but this was
the right choice for us at the moment
but uh so what what's really please go
ahead no I was going to just kind of um
double down on the playground concept
that you're speaking about um using ZK
evm to be this playground for Cutting
Edge technology and one of the things
that kind of popped out when I was
looking into uh krono ZK evm is that the
team intends for there to be um gasless
fee trading so maybe what are some of
the unique features that your team is
unlocked locked by building the the
Chrono ZK evm chain and and maybe um you
can share some of the selling points for
for what this third chain will bring yes
as you mentioned we expect uh krono KVM
to be the first uh zik zik chain so to
be to go live in main net uh and when it
does and it will have done by the time
this podcast is broadcast the value
proposition will revolve around the
following strength
first of all we want to make liquid
stake tokens as the default
cryptocurrencies as First Citizens on
the chain in the context of uh High
interest rates and you know even though
they may come down a little bit this
year um I think the interest rate
Paradigm has changed to last um over all
around the world so in a context of high
interest rates um you know crypto offers
this incredible ability of having
programmable money that uh Auto
compounds just by holding it when it's
invested uh into staking or other defi
protocols um so of course in order to
have that on a blockchain you need to
kind of build it from scratch uh so that
the whole ecosystem is designed in such
way that it is not usdc or e um or BTC
or crow that are the default
cryptocurrencies but rather the yield
bearing verion of that so Blast has done
that successfully but so far it's it's
the only chain to have managed to to
accomplish such a field and so for us we
want to provide an alternative to blast
uh as being one of the only chains where
you can earn yield as a user just by
holding e USD or Crome so that's the
first differentiating point the second
one is really we want to integrate the
concept of airdrop with everyday usage
of the of the chain right so uh up until
now the idea was there you when you
launch a qu when you launch a chain you
organize some Quest people get points
and you know at at some point those
points are converted into an air drop
and then the the the story is over we're
trying to introduce a new way of
thinking about it where it's more like a
continuous reward system uh so on Kronos
KVM there will be successive seasons of
quests so as a user you constantly have
opportunity is to get more points and
then those points are converted into
additional yield that you can claim from
the chain uh by continuing to use it so
let's say if you have 100 points those
points mean that you have access to like
a$1 thousand doll of um rewards the way
that you get those rewards is not as a
single airdrop but rather as additional
yield that you will get on the crypto
that you holding on the Chain so
hopefully this will create a virtual
Circle where the people benefiting from
the air drops are the people using the
chain uh in contrast with I think the
feeling that I've got in recent months
where you know I've really felt as a
user excluded from those air drops like
if I don't have the time to strategize
and
uh if I you know on many new chains what
I do is I just you know yield Farm I put
some liquidity because usually the rates
are attractive but by doing that I'm
usually not optimizing the amount of
points that I'm getting and I'm feeling
left out compared with professional air
drop Hunters so I think we're trying to
bring back the balance uh in the in
favor of end users and number three uh
as you mentioned so like like znc era
krono KVM will offer gasless
transactions which means that daps can
either subsidize the gas or you can pay
the gas in any cryptocurrency so it's
much simpler to use than if you always
have to to hold the the chains gas
currency in order to make any
transaction I think um that so if you
look at a lot of the folks on crypto
Twitter who did get these airdrops there
was a lot of dissatisfaction that came
with the aird drops as well so I think
beyond the point that you just brought
up that not only can we not compete with
professional airdrop Farmers because we
have lives to live um and and we're web
3 natives um and if it's too difficult
for us you know for get it for your
traditional just like custodial exchange
user so the fact that uh Kronos is
looking at this triple yield bearing
opportunity and bringing in a point
system to kind of uh benefit the user of
the chain and therefore maybe even just
benefit the average uh user who sends a
little bit of yield there and maybe
gives them a reason to come back and be
an onchain user I think this is going to
be a fast ating case study to follow and
possibly something that other ecosystems
mirror um once they see how you guys are
building on top of lessons learned from
other ecosystems like blast so this is
just going to be a fun case study to
follow as time goes on um I am curious
to hear the relationship between the
crow token and how it will exist on zero
knowledge evm will the crow token kind
of be oneto one with ZK Crow or how will
it differentiate itself from the
existing token Supply ZK Crow is a
liquid St version of crow meaning that
when you hold ziki Crow what you hold is
a proof that there is Crow Stak on the
Kronos P chain that is used to secure
the governance of the Kronos POS chain
so uh in normal ter ter in normal times
what would happen is that uh you as your
Crow is generating rewards from the
staking the price of ZK Crow um should
increase relative to the price of crow
to reflect that incremental value
accumulated however of course if there
is a slashing event on Kronos POS then
the price of ziki crow would fall
accordingly uh but you know that's
something that nowadays is commonly
accepted uh in the the way that liquid
state tokens are designed very cool and
by the time people listen to this um you
know ZK evm will have launched and I
always feel bad asking this question
because you and your team just worked
your asses off to deliver a product but
crypto is always what's next so um
wrapping up final question um assuming
that by the time the listener listens to
this at the end of September ZK evm is
now live what's next what's what's on
the road map for the Kronos team um are
you going to double down on on building
out the krono ZK evm um are there other
kind of uh Road M ticket items that you
have on top of mind yes so first of all
we're really convinced that um the
Kronos dap ecosystem has more to offer
has untap potential if you will uh on on
Kronos evm which is a relatively
isolated L1 um you know where you mostly
on RAM through c.com but it's isolated
from ethereum uh you it has already
generated a lot of excitement that it
but in our view there is untap potential
because if we make those daps available
to the broader ethereum ecosystem uh
people can recognize how easy to use and
finally financially attractive they are
so short term what's next is really to
um um build on what the foundations that
we already have and make sure that we
maximize how easy and accessible they
are for for the broader
public and beyond that really um I think
like all of us in crypto we are slaves
to the
cycles and uh how the broader up
adoption play is going to to take place
so our bet like I said before our bet is
that mainstream users are going to come
back because of a regul you know thanks
to regulatory Clarity which in turn is
going to bring institutional and
corporate use cases uh into back into
the ecosystem and our bet is because we
focused on building for mainstream users
rather than way Traders uh would be best
position to take advantage uh of the
next cycle uh and so we think there's
tremendous potential in that to some
extent the way that we jumped from zero
to number eight chain in 20 at the end
of 2021 when Kronos CVM launched uh was
proved that this bet at the time was a
valid one when mainstream users are
coming in and so we're hoping to benefit
Sim similarly uh when the next cycle of
mream ad option St again awesome and so
if there's uh anyone who's listening to
this that is interested in reaching out
to you or to the Kronos ecosystem to
maybe become a user or to become a
builder what's the best way that they
can contact you or the
team we're on Twitter so uh Kronos is at
Kronos uncore chain and I'm at K teit
which probably a bit harder to spell so
the Kronos uncore chain is the the
safest uh bet
Ken thank you so much for taking the
time out of your busy schedule to talk
about the Kronos non-custodial ecosystem
um like I said I had a blast looking
into um the three different chains that
is going to be operating Under the
chonos Umbrella um and I got a little
bit excited on new ways that I can
deploy micro um within the ecosystem so
thank you so much for taking the time to
chat with us on the smart economy
podcast it was a blast thank youen and I
really appreciate that you did all all
this research and it uh I'm really
grateful well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was
fascinating to hear more about Ken's
insights in perspective into the
Sovereign app chain thesis that Cosmos
propagated and some of the successes and
failures that the chains from the cosmos
ecosystem have seen in the years since
their launch it was also really cool to
learn more about how the Kronos team
provided feedback back to the ZK sync
team as they built out their Kronos ZK
evm chain it's always nice to hear how
these teams can interact with one
another and help each other improve on
their Tech stacks and lastly it was
fascinating to learn more about some of
the goals for the Kronos ZK evm chain
such as gasless trading fees and the
triple yield bearing token to keep up to
date with the smart economy podcast head
over to www.smart
economy podcast.com and if you like the
guests that we've had on the show please
consider showing your support by
commenting liking reviewing rating and
sharing this episode with friends and
family once again all of those actions
really do help get these episodes in
front of more ears and eyes and of
course if you're a Neo token holder
please consider voting for Neo news
today as your Council representative
we've proudly been serving the Neo
ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
Council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives with all
that said thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast and we're looking forward to
catching you on the next episode